### 174. Dungeon Game

- Difficulty:Hard
- Category:Algorithms
- Acceptance:23.59%

------

The demons had captured the princess (**P**) and imprisoned her in the bottom-right corner of a dungeon. The dungeon consists of M x N rooms laid out in a 2D grid. Our valiant knight (**K**) was initially positioned in the top-left room and must fight his way through the dungeon to rescue the princess. 

The knight has an initial health point represented by a positive integer. If at any point his health point drops to 0 or below, he dies immediately. 

Some of the rooms are guarded by demons, so the knight loses health (*negative* integers) upon entering these rooms; other rooms are either empty (*0's*) or contain magic orbs that increase the knight's health (*positive* integers).

In order to reach the princess as quickly as possible, the knight decides to move only rightward or downward in each step. 

**Write a function to determine the knight's minimum initial health so that he is able to rescue the princess.**

For example, given the dungeon below, the initial health of the knight must be at least **7** if he follows the optimal path `RIGHT-> RIGHT -> DOWN -> DOWN`.

| -2 (K) | -3   | 3      |
| ------ | ---- | ------ |
| -5     | -10  | 1      |
| 10     | 30   | -5 (P) |



Solution:

动态规划问题，从右下角算起。

dp[i,j] = min(max(1, dp[i+1, j] - dungeon[i,j]), max(1, dp[i,j+1] - dungeon[i,j]))

由于只能向下和向右运动，因此最后一行和最后一列需要特殊处理，初始条件：

dp[-1,-1] = max(1, 1-dungeon[-1,-1])



要和1取max是因为如果相减为负数则说明不需要额外的补充，即dungeon内的数本身就大于下一步要走的dungeon内的数。



    def calculateMinimumHP(self, dungeon):
        """
        :type dungeon: List[List[int]]
        :rtype: int
        """
        if not dungeon:
            return 0
        rows = len(dungeon)
        cols = len(dungeon[0])
        table = [[0 for _ in range(cols)] for _ in range(rows)]
        table[rows - 1][cols - 1] =max(1, 1 - dungeon[rows - 1][cols - 1]) 
        for c in range(cols - 2, -1, -1):
            table[-1][c] = max(1, table[-1][c+1] - dungeon[-1][c])
        for r in range(rows -2, -1, -1):
            table[r][-1] = max(1, table[r+1][-1] - dungeon[r][-1])
        for i in range(rows-2, -1, -1):
            for j in range(cols - 2, -1, -1):
                table[i][j] = min(max(1, table[i+1][j] - dungeon[i][j]), max(1, table[i][j+1] - dungeon[i][j]))
        return table[0][0]